---
layout: layouts/cms/article.html
type: article
background: Green
title: Reflections on putting on a story show
subtitle: Biting the Bullet
author: Helen Lawry
date: 2023-07-10T01:47:31.501Z
permalink: "/{{ type }}/{{ page.date | date: '%Y-%m-%d' }}-{{ page.fileSlug }}/index.html"
---


Last year I decided to put on a one-person storytelling show for adults.

It was something I felt compelled to do and despite my reservations, I knew that this was an itch I

needed to scratch.

**Logistics**

It was easy to find a **venue**, I rang the Box Factory, a local community centre, and made a booking. It cost $45.

The next thing was **advertising** the event, something that I did by making a poster, sending emails and sending the

poster to people via snail mail. I was aiming to get about 40-50 people there.

I think that the best results came from sending the poster in the mail and speaking to people directly. I doubt that

any-one came because they saw the poster in the local IGA.

I decided to simplify matters by having no pre-event **ticketing**. This made it a bit nerve-wracking but I think in retrospect was a good idea.

A couple of friends took money at the door. I charged $10 and $5 concession.

I decided against offering **refreshments** .I figured the venue was in town so people could go for a drink or a bite to eat afterwards. That meant I could have a

drink after the show instead of manning the tea-towel.

I was unsure as to if I would need **amplification** , so I arranged for Graham to bring the Guild’s p.a. in case I needed it. Although I decided not to use it, having it there gave me a sense of comfort. (Thanks Graham).

**Material**

I selected the material from things I had written myself. I wanted the show to be 45-50 minutes long. I hoped the audience would feel happy after the show: like they had been on a journey . Accordingly, I selected material that was diverse, and arranged it carefully. I thought of ways of incorporating song, sound and music

as a way of breaking up the barrage of words.

I knew that the crowd would be unsure about what to expect, so I put a lot of thought into the first moments of the show. Explaining what was in store allowed them to relax and be carried by the stories.

**Learning the material**

As the material was very closely scripted this took HOURS. I started about 4 weeks before the show and would go down to the local park

with my script after I dropped my daughter off at school. Sitting on a bench in the park muttering is not a good look.

However I knew that I had to be entirely fluent and at ease, and this only happens as the result of much muttering.

*Performing your own work is a way of saying this is what goes on in my head. I made this up. Revealing the products of your own imagination to an audience largely comprised of friends and family is intimidating, liberating, scary and wonderful.*

**Set and Costume**

Obviously this was pretty low key, but nonetheless important. My ‘set’ comprised of a small folding table, lamp, teddy-bear, small xylophone and a pot plant.

I wore white pants and black top .

**The Final Result**

It felt strange opening up the venue, screwing open the windows, setting up the chairs. I felt quite calm and excited. I asked the audience to come at 7:45 for an 8 o’clock start so

there was a lot of friendly chatting and milling around before the show. It was strange to see the mix of long lost uncles, neighbours, work colleagues, and friends of friends.

There was a terrific mixture of people there, and best of all Mum and Dad were sitting in the front row!

As the show progressed this lovely atmosphere in the room built. I felt connected to everyone there, and in a way they were connected to each other. I believe this is the beauty of storytelling. It is a binding force. I felt that I had given people some time to step out of themselves and to be carried by their imaginations and my words.

**The Sequel**

I am aiming to repeat this show in April and to devise a new one ready for November.

Perhaps you can come!